learn_though_i_donnot_need

I.My version:
1.diff needing a skill & rerequistie to learning 
  u can pursue what u find interesting and enjoyable, and it might end useful in ur future,eg:Steve Jobs learned about 
  typography way before he saw the "need" 4 it in computer interfaces, but it served him well years later.

2.cuz:many skills that:
 2.1)take a long time to develop,so u need to get started early on;
 2.2)r easy to pick up and save ur life.
 2.3)u do not know exist unless u broaden ur horizons,and
 2.4)combining diff disciplines can cultivate unique perspectives.

3.$.
  learn it now and u find that u need it.
  good at sth and then expand around that.

II.others version:
http://www.skorks.com/2011/02/

No one wants to invest the time to learn anything really deeply, not computer science fundamentals, not the latest tech you're
working with,not even the language you've been coding in every day, for the last few years. Why bother, it will be replaced, 
superseded, marginalised and out of fashion before you're half way done. I've discussed this with various people many times, 
but noone seems to really see it as a problem. "Just being pragmatic dude". In the meantime we've all become clones of each
other. You want a Java developer, I am a Java developer, you're a Java developer, my neighbour is a Java developer. What 
differentiates us from each other – not much! 

if knowing what you don't know is the ticket then surely we should be focusing on breadth of knowledge. Superficial awareness of
as much stuff as possible should see us through, we'll be able to recognise the problems when we see them and then learn what we 
need more deeply. Except it doesn't work like that, skimming subjects doesn't allow you to retain
anything, our brain doesn't work that way.

If we don't reinforce and dig deeper into the concepts we quickly page that information out as unimportant, it is a waste of 
time (think back to cramming for exams, how much do you remember the next day?). However if you focus on building deeper
understanding of a subject – in an interesting twist – you will gain broad knowledge as well (which you will actually be able 
to retain).

Being able to learn something when you need it is a good skill to have, but you can not let it be your philosophy as a 
developer. Yes it is a big industry you can't learn everything, so pick something and make sure you know it backwards, if you're
curious enough to follow up on the interesting bits, you'll find you have a decent grasp of a lot of other stuff at the end.




