oncamps_interview

1、prepare ur interview

sit down and look at ur resume carefully
in these details like how 2 say a word in english ,else it make u look really awkward during an interview

Q：What kind of exercise should u do when reading ur resume
A:
1st:think really hard about the Qs u may get
2nd:formulate ur answer

Q:how do u fomulate ur answer?

A:u have different aspects of talking about the same th.
  
  why did u put ur expercise of being a debate team member
  on ur resume?

  what kind of information i want 2 convey about myself?
  
  how would i effectively transfer that skill as a lawyer in the 
  interviewr's firm?


 Q:once u start 2 think about from which angle ur answer would be.the next 
 step is to practice ur answer just by talking 2 urself.
  
  hint:do not write down on a piece of paper.
      writing communication is diff th with oral communication. 
      there r different ways of talking about the same th.


      preparing an answer not by memorizing words from paper,everytime u 
      do this exercise,ur words will never be exactly the same.

      cuz u do not have a script to start with,but the way u r saying it 
      will be getting better and better.

      u r trying 2 express it in ur own way, which is completely 
      natural,but just better prepared.

 A:
  sit down with a friend,probably a friend who is also going through this
   process.then u can ask him or her some Qs and ur friend do the same 4 u.

  talking 2 urself is really diff with talking 2 a person.
  it is indeed me see that what's gonna happen in a real interview.


 2.research the employer u r interviewing with the practice area u r interested in and the person that is interviewing u.


 A:u should look into the firm,the practive area,and the person


 Q:what kind of information about a law firm u would want 2 know?

 A:
 have Vault to start with
 but definitely look for much more inform beyond the rank of this law firm.

 for instance:

 a)what is their strongest practice group?
 b)do they have a stronger corporate or litigation group?
 c)do thet have a strong pro bono practice?
 d)do they have a pratner that is so famous 2 become a symbol of the law firm?
 e)r thet on any news articles?
 f)do thet have any scandal in the last year that u want to avoid mentioning?
 g)the biggest feature of this law firm?
 h)the culture of law firm?
 fratty place or nerdy place?


 Q:where did u get inform?
 A: Vault
   chambers and associates
   chambers and partners

   talking with people who r working at the firm.
   insider tip is always the best resource if u have one.

   go to the receptions
   al the law firms have receptions as a recruiting event for law students

   Q:research practice areas
   A:if u don't know what they r doing,why do u want 2 work for them?

  2 diff practice groups:

  a)litigation 
  b)corporate
everyth that has 2  do outside  court interference.

for instance:
mediation,negotiation,alternate dispute resolution,discussions,drafting 
services,etc.


 My Own Version:(may be wrong)
 if that voice in ur head is telling u that u r not going to enjoy 
 litigation,do not become a litigator just cuz
 1)that is what ur friends r doing and 
 2)that is why u initially decided to go to law school


 other people's version:

 1)

 get into whatever area or firm has a need and makes u a good offer and 
 then ur experiences there will tell u what u like or do not like, r good 
 at or not and where there is more opportunity or not.

not shy away from litigation and be open to learning it if 
possible,although more hours-intensive and difficlut to find a work-life 
balance.

2)

going to court involves a lot of hassles and headaches.it is not like  the
 TV shows or movies where u just see the lawyers walking in the court and 
 talking and arguing and everything is fast and exciting...nope,far from 
 it.

....hahaha(just 4 fun)




 plus:
 there r many more categories of law practice than corporate,but a 
 few:tax,bankruptcy,family law,criminal law,personal 
 injury,employment,intellectual property,immigration,etc.


  Q:research the interviewer
  A:Do ur own work by researching this person online

  we al get a Q at the end of an interview 
  Q:Do u have any Qs 4 us?

  the project was on the headline of the lawfirm's website and her name
   was in the news article.

  Q:also look at some other th_s of this person
  
    where did he or she go to the college?
    do u have anyth in common?
    did u both have intership at one place?
    do u have any similar hobbies?




  
 














