unit_1

1.quote & paraphrase
use or repeat the words of sb else,giving acknowledgement to the source.
&
restate in diff words what sb else had said or written.

2.ostensible

&specious
has the negative suggestion of using deception 2 make sth false appear true.

&ostensible
used in opposition 2 real or actual.
means apparent,stated as true but not necessarily proved.

3.digress

2 wander,stray from the point,ramble,deviate,go off in another direction.

ROOT_DIGRESSUS:literally 2 go apart,walk away
    _INGRESS:the place u walk in,the entrance
    _ENGRESS:the place u walk out,the exit

USED OF:speaking or wiriting that departs from the main point or subject at
hand and wanders off in another direction

eg:in a buz report or an oral presentation,it is important 2 stick 2 the 
fact and not disgress

4.uncanny
1)sth that is strange in an unnatural or unearthly way,sth whose strangeness
is unsettling or even frighening.
2)beyond what is normal or expected,strange in a remarkable or marvelous way

5.candor 
express his or her thoughts frankly and openly, with no hesitation.

& forthrightness
speaks directly 2 the point,plainly and stimes bluntly,in a no-nonsense manner.

&ingenuousness
speaks honestly and sincerely,with no hint of evasiveness or deception.

&straightforwardness

&outspokenness

6.morose
gloomy,moody,glum,grumpy,ill-tempered,depressed

& dolorous
mournful,full of sadness

&lugubrious
extremely gloomy or dismal

& saturnine
having a bitter disposition or sour outlook on life.

&sullen
when u refuse 2 speak or associate with people cuz u r in a bad mood,u r 
being sullen.
when u r depressed and silent cuz u r feeling bitter or resentful,u r morose

^sanguine
having a cheerful,confident outlook on life


misanthropy 
is hatred of hunmankind,a spiteful or pressimistic attitude about the hunman
race.

moroseness
ill-tempered,bitter gloominess,

7.adept
n.highly skilled person,an expert.
adj.skilled,dexterous,proficient.

ROOT_ADEPTUS,an alchemist who has learned how 2 do the impossible_change
base mentals into gold.

8.saturated
2 soak or wet thoroughly,either literally, as in "my fries r saturated with
oil"

&sodden
heavy with mositure,soggy,or dull,stupefied,expressionless,as from drinking
2 much liquor

&drenched
&steeped
&permeated
&impregnated
&imbued

9.pregmatic
practical,having 2 do with actual practice,concerned with everyday affairs
as opposed 2 theory or speculation.

ROOT_PRAGMATICUS:skilled in buz or law.the lawyer is concerned with evidence
&proof;the buz person is concerned with facts and figures.both have little
4 idle speculation or harebranined schemes.both must be pragmatic.


10.congenial
having the same taste,nature,or temperament

^alien
^dissident
^incongruous


11.capricious:unpredictable,tending 2 change abruptly 4 no apparent or logical reason.

& caprise:a sudden change of mind or change in the emotions.

a person or a th that is capricious is subject 2 caprices_2 abrupt,unpredictable changes:


12. blatant
1)noisy,disagreeably or offensively loud,boisterous,clamorous
2)sticking out in a glaring way ,obtrusive,flagrant,as in "a blatant lie"
3)sth conspicuous & disagreeable.

13.obligatory:required,necessary,binding,mandatory.

obligatory duties r those u must perform 2 fulfill an obligation or responsibility.
doing miscellaneous paperwork is an obligatory function of the clerical worker.

14.























































































