plain_legal_writing_volume_3

PRINCIPLES FOR ANALYTICAL & PERSUASIVE WRITING

which incl:MEMO
           LETTER
           BRIEFS
           JUDICIAL OPINION
           and the like

major goals:get ur point across quickly with a concrete summary up front
            focus the analysis argument
            make it interesting
            supply smooth transitions
            quote smartly and deftly   




   21.plan all 3 parts
      1)the beginning->an introduction

        1.1)avoid:restate the title
                  hence+title sentence

        1.2)ideal:1.2.1)places the essential ideas before the reader

                  1.2.2)always put a preliminary statement on the first page of a brief,
                        even if the rules do not call for it.

                  1.2.3)don not spend on a rule to tell u to put the issues up front.

                  1.2.4)always add a preliminary statement that highlights the issues.

       1.3)Q:how to decide what goes into an introduction?
           A:1st figure out how many arguments u want to make
             2nd turn each one into an issue statement.



      2)the middle->a main body

         2.1)aviod

         2.2)ideal:2.2.1)with a series of headlings and perhaps subheadlings

                   2.2.2)develop the rasoning by which the writer seeks to prove the 
                         affirmative or the negative of the issues stated in the 
                         introduction.
  
                         Q:HOW
                         A:1st select the main ideas that prove u conclusion
                           2nd arrange them in a way that shows the relations they 
                               naturally bear to one another & to the essential ideas.

                   2.2.3)each part will be organized to do 4 th.

                         set forth the legal rule  embedded in the issue statement.

                         show how the factual points fit into this rule 

                         deal with the counterarguments(most tricky)
                           USE thesis-antithesis-conclusion

                         drive the point home with an additional reason or set of reasons

     


      3)the end->the conclusion

        3.1)avoid:for all the foregoing reasons...
                  wherefore,premises considered...
                 

        3.2)ideal:briefly sum up the argument

                  answer the questions posed in the opener

                  recapitulate ur main points concisely & perhaps put them in a nutshell.




22.use the "deep issue" 2 spill the beans on the 1st page.

    1)content:the question
              the answer
              the reasons

    2)ideal:work on a complicated case for months or even years but be able to distill its
            essence down to a page 
 

    3)benefits:3.1)testing the validity those conclusions more thorougly
               3.2)ensuring that u carry thorough with them when u get to the middle
               3.3)eliminating slag that ur reasearch has produced but that doesn't help 
                   the analysis.


    4)HOW:put the issue first

          never begin with whether or any other interrogative word

          break each issue into a separate sentences

          keep each issue to 75 or fewer words.

          weave in enough facts & arrange them chronologically,to show how the problem 
          arises.

          forget about whether the answer is yes or no

    5)DIFF memo & brief

      5.1)memo
          u don't know the answer when u read the Q,the A ,ie,underlying legal rule,should
          immediately folow an analytical issue.

      5.2)brief
          the Q should suggest the answer u want.

          USE syllogism: legal rule\major premise
                         factual premise\minor premise preferably in chronological order
                         short & punchy Q\the conclusion expressed interrogatively




23.summarize ,do not overparticularize

    1）USE:when state the fact of the case,u need to be sure that u first give an 
           introductory summary

    2)HOW: omit the tedious details
         
           test:if it is not necessary to understanding the issue || does not add human 
                interest;leave it out.

   3)aviod:precise dates 
       
           use :the next day\during the next nine months\three months later\




24.introduce each paragraph with a topic sentence.
   
    1)USE:discuss case law

    2)TIPS:use citation & footnoted to fix the disruption of chronology
           
           delay the citation enables u to write a stronger topic sentence.




25.bridge between paragraphs


26.vary the length of ur paragraphs,but generally keep them short.



27.provide signposts along the way


28.unclutter the text by moving citation into footnotes.


29.waeve quotations deftly into ur narrative.


30.be forthright dealing with counterarguments.





