plain english writing volume_4


PRINCIPLES for LEGAL DRAFTING

1)incl:all the various types of documents that set forth rights,duties,and liabilities in the future.

       contracts,wills,trusts,municipal ordinances,rules,regualtions,statutes

2)request:
 
   2.1) unmistakable--people will read it adversarially

   2.2) a committee product

   2.3) boring to read

   2.4)easy to consult?

   2.5)deals with future events.



31. draft for  an ordinary reader,not 4 a mythical judge who might someday review the document.

    1.cuz:1)lawyers who draft for judges tend to adopt a highly legalistic style,since judges have legal training,
            yet becuz these lawyers aren't litigators,they almost never interact with judges.they don't know how 
           much most judges detest legalese.

          2)judges never see most drafted documents-only a small fraction of 1% ever get litigated.

          3)this apporach contemplates only the disaster that might occur if litigation were to erupt.it does 
            nothing to prevent the litigation from arising.in other words,the approach focuses exclusively on the 
            back-end users,with no concern for the front-end users who must administer and abide by the document.

         4)the further removed a document is from plain english,the more likely the parties are to ignore it in 
           their everyday dealings.it won't effectively govern their relationship.

         5)the further removed a document from plain english,the more divergent the views will be about its meaning
           --even among judges.

     2.avoid:drafters often lapse into the poor habit of addressing their provisions directly to someone other than
             the reader for whom the document is ostensibly written.


     3.notes:write for ur immdiate readers--the ones to whom u're directing ur communications.don't write for some
             remote decision maker who probably won't ever see,let alone interpret,the document.if u write well for
             the front-end users,u're less likelt to have trouble down the line.


 
32.organize provisons in order of descending importance.

    1.cuz:remember that plain english is concerned with readers--what they need to know and when they need to know
          it.u can't be content to let readers fend for themselves.u'll need to organize document so logially and
          clearly that further reference to any specific point is easy.although the nature of the particular
          document will influence the stru.

    2.guidelines:2.1)put the more important before the less impor.
                 2.2)put the broadly applicable before the narrowly applicable.
                 2.3)put rules before exceptions.
                 2.4)try to make whatever u write--and every part within it--self-contained.ur readers shouln't 
                     have to remember other documents or sections,or flip back to them,to make sense of what u're
                     saying.

    3:eg:contract->1st substantive provisions:the parties main obligations to each other
       
         statue->put the main requirements up front,everything else flows from them.






33.minimize definitions & cross -references, if u have more than just a few definitions,put them in
 schedule at the end , not at  the beginning .




34.break down enumerations into parallel provisions.put every list of subparts at the end of sentence--
   never at the beginning or in the middle




35.delete every shall


36.do not use provisos.


37.replace and||or wherever it appears


38.prefer the singualr over the plural


39.prefer numerals,not words,to denote amounts,avoid word-numeral doublets.


40.if u do not understand a form provision||do not understand why it should be included in ur document,
   try diligently gain that understanding,if u still can not understand it,cut it.
