unit_1

1.BENE-well

1.1 benediction
 A prayer that asks for God's blessing, especially a prayer 
 that concludes a worship service.

1.2 benefactor 
Someone who helps another person or group, esp by giving money.

1.3 beneficiary
a person or organization that benefits or is expected 2 benefit from sth.
esp one that receives monet or property when sb dies,

usu, with life insurance

as well: a collge may be the beneficiary of a private donation.

        a third-party beneficiary of contract is a person(often a child
)who the people signing the contract (which is usu an insurance policy or 
an employee-benefit plan) want 2 benefit from it.


1.4 benevolence

kindness,generosity

ROOT_wish

2 b benevolent ,it helps 2 have money ,but it is not necessary,kind assistan
ce of a nonfinancial sort may turn out 2 b lifesaving benevolence as well.



2. DICTION-speaking
(1) Choice of words, especially with regard to correctness, 
clearness, or effectiveness. 
(2) Clarity of speech.

DICT-to speak
CONTRA-against

3.AM

ROOT_AMARE: to love/ the roman god of love was known by 2 diff names,Cupid
& Amor 

3.1 amicable

1)often describes relations between 2 groups, or esp 2 nation-eg:the us. &
canada,which r proud of sharing the longest unguarded border in the world.

amicable settlement/meeting

2)decribes more personal relations,it may indicate a rather formal frendline
ss.

but.always nice when 2 friends who have been quarreling manage 2 have an
amicable conversation and 2 say a,ocable good-byes at the end.


3.2 enamored
charmed or fascinated,inflamed with love.
eg:computer hackers r always enamored of their new programs and games.
   Romeo and Juliet were utterly enamored of each other.

BUT: usu in negative context.
    not enamored of the new boss...

3.3 amorous 
having or showing strong feelings of attraction or love.

a couple smooching on a park bench could be called amorous, or a young 
married couple who r always hugging and kissing

USED:a bit sarcastically
     when a tabloid newspaper get hold of some scandalous photos and calls
the participants "the amorous pair".in such case ,we may be encouraged 2
think the attraction is more physical than emotional. 

3.4 paramour
a lover,often secret,not allowed by law or custom.

ROOT_PAR AMOUR:through love
it implied realtionship based solely on love, often physical love,rather
than on social custom or ceremony.

USE:the lover of a married man or woman ,but may be used 4 any lover who
is not obeying the social rules.


4.BELL :war

4.1 bellicose:warlike,aggressive,quarrelsome

USE:describes an attitudes that hopes 4 actual war,the world is generally applied 2 nations and
their leaders.
  
4.2 belligerence:aggressiveness,combativeness

USE:unlike bellicose & bellicosity ,the word belligerence can be used at every level from the 
personal 2 the global.


4.3 rebellion :open defiance & opposition, stimes armed, 2 a person or th in authority.

USE:usu involves a group.armed rebellions r usu put down by a country 's armed forces,or at least
kept from expanding beyond a small area.


5.PAC:agree & peace

5.1 pacify
   1)2 soothe anger or agitation
   2)2 subdue by armed action


5.2 pacifist
a person opposed 2 war or violence,esp sb who refuse 2 bear arms or 2 fight, on moral or religious 
grounds.

5.3 pace:contrary 2 the opinion of 

USE:when correctin an opinion that many people believe
    eg:the cost of the program,pace some commentators,will not b significant
IF:Peace 2 them
ELSE:2 the people i am mentioning_i do not want 2 start an argument,i just want 2 correct the facts











5.3

5.4











































































































 












